Add open source licence guidance (#333)
NHSDigital/software-engineering-quality-framework: practices/open-source.md

    - [3.3 If your application runs in the user's browser](#33-if-your-application-runs-in-the-users-browser)
      - [3.3.1 If your application is coded in the open, or is to be open source](#331-if-your-application-is-coded-in-the-open-or-is-to-be-open-source)
        - [3.3.1.1 If your server and client components are distributed together](#3311-if-your-server-and-client-components-are-distributed-together)
        - [3.3.1.2 If your server and client components are distributed separately](#3312-if-your-server-and-client-components-are-distributed-separately)
      - [3.3.2 If your application is closed source](#332-if-your-application-is-closed-source)
  - [4. The LGPL: on Linking](#4-the-lgpl-on-linking)
    - [4.1 JavaScript on the web](#41-javascript-on-the-web)
    - [4.2 JavaScript on the server (node.js/bun)](#42-javascript-on-the-server-nodejsbun)
  - [5. What to do when a dependency changes licence](#5-what-to-do-when-a-dependency-changes-licence)
    - [5.1 Comply with the new licence](#51-comply-with-the-new-licence)
    - [5.2 Stay on the old version](#52-stay-on-the-old-version)
    - [5.3 Replace the dependency](#53-replace-the-dependency)

> This section provides guidance for teams who either consume open source dependencies, or are considering whether to make their own projects public.

Reviewer: By default each new project is public. Can we reword the second part of this sentence to reflect it? e.g. replace/remove "considering"

Author: Yes, that's worth a redo.  Something along the lines of this, maybe?

```suggestion
This section provides guidance for teams who either consume open source dependencies, or want to understand our responsibilities when we [code in the open](https://service-manual.nhs.uk/standards-and-technology/service-standard-points/12-make-new-source-code-open).
```

> Make all new source code open and reusable, and publish it under appropriate licences. Or if this is not possible, provide a convincing explanation of why this cannot be done for specific subsets of the source code.

We inherit this rule into NHS England's projects via the [NHS Service Manual](https://service-manual.nhs.uk/standards-and-technology/service-standard-points/12-make-new-source-code-open).

There is further guidance as to when publishing our source code would not be appropriate in the (draft) [Open Source Policy](https://github.com/nhsx/open-source-policy/blob/main/open-source-policy.md#3-when-code-should-be-open-or-closed).

The position of all three of these documents is that we should code in the open by default. If you are starting a new project then your first choice should be the [MIT Licence](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/).  See [here](https://github.com/nhsx/open-source-policy/blob/main/open-source-policy.md#c-licences-and-regulatory-requirements) for the rationale, and for when alternatives may be appropriate.

> There will be special cases where we need to deviate from that guidance. For instance, if we were to build a reference implementation of an API standard, and we wanted to ensure that future developments of that reference implementation benefit the public commons, it may be suitable to choose the AGPL for that implementation. In such cases, where you believe that you may need to deviate from the [Open Source policy](https://github.com/nhsx/open-source-policy/blob/main/open-source-policy.md), you should consult the Engineering Technical Authority for advice.  While it is not (yet) a binding policy, it is a distillation of good practice and should be followed unless there is a good reason not to, as in this example.

Reviewer: `you may need to deviate from the Open Source policy` - do we mean just licencing or closed source or anything in between?

Author: In context it's "deviate from the guidance as to the specific licence to select". I can make that clearer.

Author: ```suggestion
There will be special cases where we need to deviate from the licences listed in the above guidance. For instance, if we were to build a reference implementation of an API standard, and we wanted to ensure that future developments of that reference implementation benefit the public commons, it may be suitable to choose the AGPL for that implementation. In such cases, where you believe that you may need to deviate from the [Open Source policy](https://github.com/nhsx/open-source-policy/blob/main/open-source-policy.md), you should consult the Engineering Technical Authority for advice.  While it is not (yet) a binding policy, it is a distillation of good practice and should be followed unless there is a good reason not to, as in this example.
```

Does that capture it?

- The inclusion of code from an LGPL'd library, modified or not, directly into an application's source code does result in a work covered by the LGPL.
- Where we provide a library for use in the browser, whether or not that

### 4.2 JavaScript on the server (node.js/bun)

It is our policy that:

- Open source applications either that we run or that we provide for others to run should be offered under the terms of the GPLv3 if they incorporate dependencies distributed under the LGPL, as indicated by the [Open Source policy](https://github.com/nhsx/open-source-policy/blob/main/open-source-policy.md).
- Closed source server applications that we run do not incur obligations from dependencies under the LGPL, since the application itself is never conveyed to the user.
- Closed source server applications that we provide for others to run and which have LGPL'd dependencies must be distributed in a format which allows the user to substitute those dependencies for their own versions.  If they cannot, and if we cannot offer the application under the GPLv3, then the LGPL'd dependencies must be replaced or removed.

> ## 5. What to do when a dependency changes licence

Reviewer: Do we recommend a way to automatically check if projects are compliant with the dependency licences?

Author: Not *yet*.  I'd point at syft in the repository template if we had it working reliably, but it's not in a suitable state right now. There are ecosystem-specific tools like https://www.npmjs.com/package/license-checker and https://pypi.org/project/licensecheck/ we could direct people to until we've got something shrink-wrapped, maybe.
